Add documentation for disable_tiering (#3496)
timescale/docs: use-timescale/data-tiering/disabling-data-tiering.md

---

> title: Creating a tiering policy
> excerpt: How to create a tiering policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Disabling tiering for a hypertable
excerpt: How to disable tiering for a hypertable
```

Reviewer 2: Disable tiering for a hypertable

No ing words please :-).

Author: fixed.

product: [ cloud ]
keywords: [ tiered storage, tiering ]
tags: [ storage, data management ]
---

# Disabling tiering on a hypertable

If you no longer want to use tiered storage for a particular hypertable, you 

> can drop the associated metadata by calling the `disable_tiering` function.

Reviewer 3: Since this may not be obvious to a user, maybe it makes sense to clarify, that untiering/dropping all the tiered chunks does not automatically disable tiering. And since it can affect query planning it may be beneficial to disable it.

Reviewer 2: This is explained later on.

In order to use this API, first call [remove_tiering_policy][tiering-policy] to drop 

> any tiering policy associated with this hypertable. Second, make sure that there is 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the tiering policy associated with this hypertable. Second, make sure that there is 
```

Author: fixed.

no tiered data associated with this hypertable.

This query lists the tiered chunks associated with this hypertable.
```sql
select * from timescaledb_osm.tiered_chunks 

> ```

Reviewer 3: I checked a few doc pages, example queries are usually ended by `;` (surprisingly not all though, but most).

Also technically this query shows all tiered chunks, not just "associated with this hypertable". I wonder if this should be rephrased somehow or the query adjusted.

Author: fixed.

> If you have any tiered chunks, you must either untier this data or drop these chunks 

Reviewer: @gayyappan you may want to disable tiering on a service but leave the tiered data - for example, if there is another service (fork, etc) that has access to the same data. Am I right?

Author: This is metadata specific to this service/instance. It does not control what happens on a fork.

Reviewer: @gayyappan what I meant was that they do not need to make sure that they untier everything - their data is still there if at least another service has a reference to them.

Or is it that if they don't do so their catalog will be broken and hence we require them to manually drop the chunk for this service? 

If so, we should make this more clear. Both that (1) as long as there is another service with access to the same tiered data they do not lose the data and that (2) they need to do something with those chunks before disabling tiering. 

Otherwise, the way it is written now it feels like the primary reason to do so is to keep the data.

Author: We added this API in response to users who want to untier everything and then make some schema modifications. We had to manually go and fix everything to remove tiering capabilities for that hypertable - drop the foreign table etc. 
Or they still foreign chunks in their plans etc.

Probably needs a rewrite if this is confusing. Please take a stab at it.

Author: IMO, Bringing up another service in this context is confusing. A fork always respects a fork's semantics (i.e. the  primary and fork will/can diverge).
a replica respects a replica's semantics i.e. primary and replica will be in sync.
So this is not related to tiering?

Author: I made some changes to the doc. Hopefully this reads better now. @billy-the-fish  @iroussos all yours now :-)

from tiered storage. You can use the [untier_chunk][untier-data] procedure 
to untier chunks that have already been tiered to local storage.

> If these two preconditions are met, you can use the disable_tiering function to drop all tiering related metadata for the hypertable.

Reviewer 3: ```diff
-you can use the disable_tiering function
+you can use the `disable_tiering` function
```

Author: fixed.
